# Java Based Traffic Simulator
## Program Working Document

### Specification
The problem is that a traffic simulator is needed, which should not violate road rules. 
The program will be designed to simulate various situations to solve this problem

### Decomposition
The objects included:
-	Car
-	Traffic Light
-	Road

#### Car
The car object will be responsible for adjusting the vehicle length and tracking the car position.
The traffic light object will contain a Boolean than prevents and allows the car object from moving one road object to another. 
The car class requires a variety of attributes(length, distance, on_Road)), 
including the size of the car, the length of the bus and motorcycle, 
the distance depending on the location of each vehicle as it passes through the road section, 
and the on-road to track which road the car is on. This class will interact with the traffic light class and the road class. 
This class interacts with traffic light and Road classes.

##### Bus
The bus class will be a subclass of car, describing a large road vehicle. It will inherit its attributes and behaviour from  
Car except its length will be defined as being three times that of the car’s length. 

#### Road
The road class will be an object that describes a single lane road. Holding the following attributes;
- *id* - a unique identifier that will differentiate each road
- *Speed limit* – the maximum speed that cars on that road may travel at.
-	*Length* – the number of segments the road is comprised of and the physical space it occupies.
-	*Start location* – the (x,y) coordinate that represents where the road begins.
-	*End location* – the (x,y) coordinate that represents where the road ends.
-	*Connected roads* – all of the roads that this road is physically connected to.
-	*Lights on the road* – all the traffic lights that are on the ends this road.
-	*Cars on the road* – all of the cars that are currently traveling on this road.

The for the first version of the program the speed will be constant and set to 1. Meaning the car will only be able to move a single position each turn making it easier deal with traffic lights and the ends of roads. The length of the road will be variable depending of user input. Roads will interreact with other roads by being connected to them, creating a very basic intersection with only one option for the car to take. Cars will move along the road from the starting position (1) to the end position, that depends on the road’s length. Traffic lights can be placed at only the end position of the road.

#### Traffic Light
 The road object will include segments that allow the car to drive the road until it meets an intersection.
 The Road class attributes length and road_num. 
 The length of the road depends on the length of the car. 
 Road numbers only identify road objects from other road objects. 
 The car will include a section to monitor itself on the road. 
 The path will include the gaiter, setter, and constructor of the initial value.

The traffic light will operate, using the opperate() method. Randomly changing from green to red. This opperation will be based on pseudo-random numbers generated by the program. The light will be placed on a road only at its final position, the end of the road, and will interact with cars that are also at that position. If the light is red the cars will stop and not move to the next road. If the light is green the cars will continue past and move to the next road.

### Main
This class will have the main() method that will contain the simulation loop.
All the objects needed for the simulation will be created here; creating roads, a car and a traffic light. Locations for roads and thier connection will also be set here. For this version of the program the user will only have conrol over the lenght of the road and the speed the simulation runs at. The simulation will run, moving the car and operating traffic lights, untill the car can no longer move and has come to a stop.


